## Day 9

Today I continued reading chapter 7 of Clojure from the Ground up and followed along the explanations, typing every instructions like in the previous chapters but
this time in a project and not just in REPL sessions!

### tests

#### namespaces
I learnt that to map the dashes in a namespace you can use an underscore in a file name. This is the same advice found in the style guide, 
section [Test Namespace Naming](https://github.com/bbatsov/clojure-style-guide#test-namespace-naming).
I also learnt other best practices about namespaces there, section [Namespace Declaration](https://github.com/bbatsov/clojure-style-guide#namespace-declaration):
- one file per namespace: it's implied in the book with "amespaces and file names match up"
- namespaces are best kept between two and five segments
- `organization.project.module` is one of the preferred namespace schema, as per section 
[Ns Naming Schemas](https://github.com/bbatsov/clojure-style-guide#ns-naming-schemas)
as is `project.module` that we already saw in the book with `scratch.core` and in the clojure schema with `clojure.core`.  
> Now I wonder if putting the name of the organization in the namespace is that popular... the namespace choosen for the library used in chapter 7, Cheshire,
is `cheshire.core`, this one could be explained by the fact that behind this library there is not an organization but one developer and other contributors. 
But also from my experience with one external library that I used, tick, the namespace was only `tick.alpah.api` even if there is a company behind it, caled Juxt.

#### `deftest` and `testing`
The book example shows how `deftest` and `testing` work but the Clojure documentation is also interesting because it shows how flexible writting tests is:
- `deftest`s can be composed
- `testing` can be nested
> The documentation example shows that nesting `testing` is useful to test a function with positive and negative integers, would testing for input validation be 
another good use of it?
Checking for null and empty string in nested `testing`s for example.

So we can use `deftest` to test a single function and `testing` to test specific use cases against it. Compared to C# where to test different behaviors of
a method you have to create multiple test methods and then, when the methods grow larger, a workaround is to wrap them in the `#region` keyword to keep the code
readable.
Also `testing` allows to specify the name of the test in full english, making it easier to read than C# (often long) method names following PascalCase.

### Exploring data
The working URL to download ucr normalized data is: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/maliabadi/ucr-json/master/data/parsed/normalized/2008.json  
URL of the git repository I am working on for this chapter: https://github.com/estellerostan/scratch
