# Day 27

### A day off
Learning every day is good to keep pace but it can be tiring in the long run and I don't want to be burnt out from forcing myself into a fixed scheme when all it's 
going to end up achieving is to make me stop learning altogether.
It seems that Friday is a good day for my day off learning Clojure because it's been three weeks that I skipped posting.  
So I'm going to make Friday my default day off and if I work on that day then good for me but I can still take another day off during the week if I feel like I 
need to.  

### `partial`
_definition:_ A function which takes a function f, and some arguments (fewer than the normal arguments to f), and returns a new function. When called, the returned function calls f with the arguments passed to `partial`, followed by any arguments passed to the new function.  
_example:_ `(partial * factor)` returns a function that takes any number, and multiplies it by `factor`.

### `pst` and `*e`
- `*e` is a special variable that the REPL uses to stashe an exception object after intercepting it and printing it to the console.  
- `(pst *e)` or just `(pst)` prints the stack trace of the most recent repl exception. It is also possible to supply a depth parsmeter to indicate the depth of the 
stack trace and the default is 12.
- The stack is the context of the program at each function call. It traces the path the computer took in evaluating the expression, from the bottom to the top. At the bottom is the REPL, and Clojure compiler and at the top is the user's code.
