# Day 4

Today I read chapter 4 of Clojure from the ground up about sequences and because `filter` was mentioned, it was a good excuse to listen to the latest episode of the 
Functional Design in Clojure podcast titled "Filter and Friends"!

## [Chapter 4 - Sequences](https://aphyr.com/posts/304-clojure-from-the-ground-up-sequences)

#### `source`
Yesterday I wanted to see how `defn` was implemented knowing that "it creates a function and binds it to a var" and that the documentation for it says it is the 
"Same as (def name (fn [params* ] exprs*))", but is it really just a `def` and a `fn`?  
So what did I do?
My first thought was to visit the Clojure GitHub repository and search for the `defn` code, but of course if I just chose `defn` as the search query, a lot of hits 
were going to be returned... So instead I typed `(doc defn)` in a REPL and pasted a part of the result in the repository search query, got two hits and one that was what I
was looking for. Conclusion: not so efficient.  
Turns out I could have used `source` all along! and that the code for `defn` is not so easy to understand for my beginner level :sweat_smile:  
- `source` and `doc` paired with the REPL are a powerful mean to [stay in the flow](https://purelyfunctional.tv/?p=82732), as the latest newsletter of 
PurelyFunctional.tv talks about, because we get **"Immediate feedback"**. Of course sometimes (even more as a beginner) the doc isn't enough so the need to change 
context is still there, usually to visit [ClojureDocs](https://clojuredocs.org/), the community provided example repository.  
- Reading the source doesn't work for functions defined in the REPL but reading the doc does.
> TODO: Is it possible to display the source for external Clojure libraries? Because the docs says "This requires that the symbol resolve to a Var defined in a namespace"
for which the .clj is in the classpath." and what about ClojureScript?

### Recursion
I love how the example is constructed, it walks us through the problem of writing our own version of `inc`, step by step.  
Even though I haven't used recursion a lot (if ever?) after school, I knew about it, from the classic factorial example so I was happy to see another one in this
chapter. But I can't resist to have my own take at the factorial example in Clojure:
``` Clojure
user=> (defn factorial [num]
  (if (<= num 1) 
    (if (< num 0)
      nil
      1) 
    (* num (factorial (- num 1)))))
```
And to put into practice what I learnt today :grinning: (anonymous functions are so nice):
``` clojure
user=> (map #(factorial %) [0 1 2 3 4])
;; (1 1 2 6 24)
```

### Problems: 1/4
:bulb: This is the first chapter to have problems and I was not prepared for it so for the next study sessions I will need to book more time to go through them
(5 for the next chapters)
> TODO: finish problems
- Write a function to find out if a string is a palindrome–that is, if it looks the same forwards and backwards.
- Find the number of ‘c’s in “abracadabra”.
``` clojure
user=> (count (filter #(re-find #("c") (str %)) (seq "abracadabra"))
;; 1
```
- Write your own version of filter.
- Find the first 100 prime numbers: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, ….
