# Day 6

Today I finished two exercises from chapter 4 and I re-read chapter 6 of Clojure from the ground up.

## Problems:
- Write a function to find out if a string is a palindrome–that is, if it looks the same forwards and backwards.
``` clojure
user=>(defn palindrome? [x] (= x (apply str (reverse x))))
;; #'user/palindrome?
user=> (palindrome? "palindrome")
;; false
user=> (palindrome? "ava")
;; true
```

- Write your own version of filter.
> TODO:

- Find the first 100 prime numbers: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, ….
``` clojure
;; hard to read on one line
(filter #(some? %) (map (fn [x] (if (some #(= 0 %) (map #(unchecked-remainder-int x %) (range 2 x))) nil x)) (range 2 100)))

;; so I tried my hand at formatting but I need to read more about it
user=> (filter #(some? %) 
        (map (fn [x] 
               (if (some #(= 0 %) 
                         (map #(unchecked-remainder-int x %) 
                              (range 2 x))) 
                 nil 
                 x)) 
             (range 2 100)))
```

### Formatting
> TODO: read https://github.com/bbatsov/clojure-style-guide

## [Chapter 6 - State](https://aphyr.com/posts/306-clojure-from-the-ground-up-state)

### `reductions`
It is really useful to debug! My favourite function of the day. Of course you could always write a function yourself, as said in [the docs](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/reductions) with `(defn my-reduce [op coll] (for [n (range (count coll))] (reduce op (take (inc n) coll)))`
but having it built in is better.
By the way, this could be a good exercise, inspired by the "Write your own version of filter." we could have a "Write your own version of reductions."

### `deref`
I heard this word a lot in Clojure podcasts but I never knew it was the `@` character I saw in some codebases.

## Atoms
I didn't know that you could create code that is not thread safe in Clojure, because people always mention how good is the language for concurrency
but now that I see an example, it makes sense. After all I already know  how to use mutable variables from the "functions" chapter, "Vars" section... 
I just needed to learn about `future`s!  
Still, I'll try to keep in mind the example provided in chapter 8 "Atoms" section and be careful when using vars, or just use atoms to begin with.

### Exercises
> TODO:

## What's next for tomorrow?
Finish the exercises but I had a look at chapter 7 and it's about a complete Clojure program, not only short exercises so I'm really looking forward to it!
