# Day 2

Today I re-read chapter 2 of Clojure from the ground up! Because that's how I learn best, more than just one study session and spaced in time to really grasp all of the content.  
And the part about lists made me think of a podcast I love, so today I also listened to episode 81 of the Functional Design in Clojure podcast titled "List No More", 
you can listen to it here https://clojuredesign.club/episode/081-list-no-more/ or on your favorite podcast reader (I'm using a really good one named AntennaPod which
is [open-source](https://github.com/AntennaPod/AntennaPod) available on [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/de.danoeh.antennapod/) if you care about that).  
Having both the book chapter and the podcast episode to connect my knowledge together made me have a deeper understanding of the subject.

Yesterday I said that I'm not going to write word for word what the book chapters were about, but because I didn't find a transcripts of the podcast I can easily
refer to, I dedcided to take notes as the episode was playing.
### Core functions: `first` and `second` and the related `key` and `val`
They all have in common that they take a list and give one potential element out of that list or nil.  
### nil
So in Clojure from the ground up nil is defined as the absence of information, that seems to be the same definition that the Clojure docs give, 
weirdly the only definition I found for nil was on the page about Clojure [Differences with other Lisps](https://clojure.org/reference/lisps)
> In Clojure nil means 'nothing'. It signifies the absence of a value, of any type, and is not specific to lists or sequences.  

But in the podcast episode they define it as a positive statement of nothing, which I liked because it is true in comparison of Java 
where if you try to access an element from an empty list it returns an exception, so in comparison Clojure is returning a positive statement with `nil`.
But this definition can make it confusing regarding Clojure positive and negative values where nil is a negative value...

#### `first` and `second`
`first`: One use case of first is when using filter then using first  
`second`: when you expect the list to have no or two elements like a tuple 

Why call first when you can destructure values out of the list?  
threading macro  
`re-matches`: you don't care about the intermediate list value (spoiler: we'll talk more about `re-matches` tomorrow)  
no third our fourth or fifth function  
sequence of list, filter the ones you don't care about  
Clojure doesn't have tuples, no need?  
Map: treat them like an object or a pair of two entry tuples using  
and val (instead of first and second: most efficient and more true??  
act on portions of the map, not vectors so it's also more appropriate)  
#### `key` and `val`
They say map reformer(?) is a thing but a quick search held nothing... I have to look into it again and hope to find an example to help me understand.  
The point is to combine juxt, map, comp, key and val to add data into each "tuple" of the map?? This part confused me.
Performance concern only with huge amount of data.

## nth
When was the last time the hosts used `nth`? answer: `nil` haha  
But Clojure from the ground up mentions `nth` as any other regular function to know in the "basics" chapter so now I wonder about the real world usage of `nth`  
Because `first`, `second`, `last` and destructuring replace the need of `nth`.  
And `nth` is innefficient on sequences O(n) because it traverses the linked list  
Also because so many things Clojure developers work with are sequences, it makes `nth` less used   
For example: call map on a vector and you get a sequence out  
So to use `nth` you have to pour it back into a vector  
And most of the things we want to look up by key are maps  
Alternatively you can use get-in.
