Before sharing what I learnt today, thanks to [@mnihalm](https://github.com/mnihalm) for holding me accountable, I know I can't chicken out of this now! :chicken:

# Day 1

Today (a bit (a lot?) earlier yesterday) I read the first 2 chapters of Clojure from the Ground up... and got a bit carrieed away :eyes:

That's why in this post don't expect a full coverage of the material. That and because then you might as well just skip this and read the chapters for yourself.
Instead I am going to share the thoughts I had when I was reading, the questions I came to ask myself and  how I answered them as part of my study.

## [Chapter 1 - First principles](https://aphyr.com/posts/301-clojure-from-the-ground-up-welcome)

### The REPL
The first chapter rapidly talks about the REPL but I think it is a whole experience and it deserves a blog post of its own so I recommend reading
[this one](https://vvvvalvalval.github.io/posts/what-makes-a-good-repl.html).

### The single quote '
I learnt about the single quote in the first chapter and then that it is equivalent to the longer version, the `quote` function, by looking at the Clojure docs.

## [Chapter 2 - Basi types](https://aphyr.com/posts/302-clojure-from-the-ground-up-basic-types)

### Numbers and comparing
One example caught my attention:
``` clojure
user=> (= 3 3.0)
;; false
user=> (== 3 3.0)
;; true
```

With this, I was reminded of C# and JavaScript:
- In C# there is the equality operator `==` and that's you get all because 
> Operands of the built-in value types are equal if their values are equal

If you want strict equality you will have to use objects, cast and use the `.Equals` method of Int32
``` C#
((int)3).Equals((double)3.0) // False
```
- In Javascript, there are `==` and `===`, respectively the equality and the strict equality operator.
``` javascript
// because ECMAScript has only two built-in numeric types: Number and BigInt, both results are true
console.log(3 == 3.0)
// true
console.log(3 === 3.0)
// true
```

So JavaScript equality is the opposite of what Clojure chose, in practice which is more likely to be a sane default?

#### Comparing Numbers and Strings
What I wanted to try is to compare a number and a string that looks like a number:
- JavaScript is happy to report that they are the same, as long as it is not stict equality
``` javascript
console.log(3 == "3.0") // type conversion happens and all is well
// true
console.log(3 === "3.0") // the === operator expects equality in both type and value
// false
```
- But Clojure is not! even with the loose compare
``` clojure
user=> (== 3 "3.0")
;; ClassCastException
```

Well, looking at the [quickref for Clojure](http://clojuredocs.org/quickref), the exception makes sense:
> =  Equality. Returns true if x equals y, false if not. Same as Java x.equals(y) except it also works for nil, a

> == Returns non-nil if **nums** all have the equivalent value (type-independent), otherwise false

I was trying to use a function on the wrong type


Then how do I get my example to work? This does:
``` clojure
(== 3 (Double/parseDouble "3.0")) ;; because remember that doubles are the default in Clojure
;; true
```

But what if I don't want to have to specify the type?
``` clojure
(require '[clojure.edn :as edn])
(== 3 (edn/read-string "3.0"))
;; true
```
Now this is better! 
The best part is that I found the answer in one of the notes of the Clojure documentation for the [num](http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/num) function,
saving me from yet another search query.

So today I also learnt about type coercion in Clojure from a String, which is done with [Java interop](https://clojure.org/reference/java_interop).

### not equal
In the quickref I saw that `not=` exists but `not==` doesn't so to loosely compare numbers we must use the "longer" version `(not (== obj1 obj2))`
