# Day 11

It's Chapter 7 again!

### `->>`
When calling functions with no arguments in a thread-last macro, parenthesis are optional. Yesterday's commit with frequencies did not make me tick but `pprint`
did.

### `pprint`
`pprint` is nice, it pretty prints stuff for you. From the documentation, it seems to be quite useful for maps that have values other than a string or a number. 
Because in our case the map only has numbers as values, at first I didn't use `pprint` on the sorted frequencies, evaluated it and it still turned out to be 
readable, with 50 items each printed on a newline. So I wanted to see what changed when running it with `pprint`.
 Turns out the only thing that changes in our case is not the formatting but the number of items displayed! Instead of 50 it was ALL of them...
And our map has 892 elements (`(->> data (map :driving_under_influence) frequencies count)`), when I `pprint`ed it on my machine, it didn't like it 
(it donesn't have a lot of RAM)!  
> Does that mean next time I run `pprint` I need to remember to `count` and `(take 100)` or something before running it? :crying_cat_face: 

Also in our case when only pretty printing 10 elements, they all stay on the same line while on the documentation example, 5 items are on a new line because they have
a more complex value (another map with 5 items, this time the values being numbers). In conclusion, `pprint` does a good job at pretty pritting :laughing:

### `use`
In the book, it is not shown how to load `pprint` so I guess they just went with `(use 'clojure.pprint)` again.  
I changed my code from `use` to `:require` because the style guide says the former is deprecated.

### Project structure
I forgot to write this the other day but another thing that differs in my program from the book is where I stored the ucr file and how I re-named it:
- I stored it in the `resources` folder because its a:
> text file that provide other data the program needs to run

- I renamed the file from `2008.json` to `ucr-normalized-2008.json` because it was more descriptive than just a date.
