# Day 15

Instead of 16 because as I skipped yesterday.

## Chapter 7 Exercises

1. `most-duis` tells us about the raw number of reports, but doesn’t account for differences in county population. One would naturally expect counties with more 
people to have more crime! Divide the `:driving_under_influence` of each county by its :county_population to find a prevalence of DUIs, and take the top ten counties
based on prevalence. How should you handle counties with a population of zero?
It is not asked in the exercise but first I wanted to know if there are any counties with a population of zero and which ones are they:
``` clojure
(->> "resources/ucr_normalized_2008.json"
     load-json
     (sort-by :driving_under_influence)
     (filter #(= (:county_population %) 0))
     (count)) ;; 35
```
However in the original dataset:
- four of them don't have a county code (`:fips_county_code nil`), they only have a state code like New Jersey (`:fips_state_code "34"`) 
- twenty five of them have `fips_county_code` that are not valid(?) or at least not in our FIPS dataset (`777`) so they end up being treated as `[nil 0]`
- two results were strange to me `[nil 196]` and `[nil 5]`  

So for my query only eight gave an exploitable result:
``` clojure
(->> "resources/ucr_normalized_2008.json"
     load-json
     (sort-by :driving_under_influence)
     (filter #(= (:county_population %) 0))
     (map (fn [county]
            [(fips (fips-code county))
             (:driving_under_influence county)]))

     (into  {}))
{nil 196,
 "VA, South Boston" 0,
 "AK, Southeast Fairbanks" 0,
 "AK, Yakutat" 0,
 "MT, Yellowstone National Park" 0,
 "AK, Yukon-Koyukuk" 0,
 "HI, Kalawao" 0,
 "VA, Clifton Forge" 0,
 "AK, Lake and Peninsula" 0}
```
But I don't know how they came up with the numbers because I see population data on Wikipedia.
> TODO: exercise 1 for real this time

2. How do the prevalence counties compare to the original counties? Expand `most-duis` to return vectors of `[county-name, prevalence, report-count, population]`
What are the populations of the high-prevalence counties? Why do you suppose the data looks this way? If you were leading a public-health campaign to reduce drunk 
driving, would you target your intervention based on report count or prevalence? Why?

3. We can generalize the `most-duis` function to handle any type of crime. Write a function `most-prevalent` which takes a file and a field name, like `:arson`, and
finds the counties where that field is most often reported, per capita.

4. Write a test to verify that `most-prevalent` is correct.
